feat: CXSPA-3903 Trace Context - doc input (#1542)
SAP/spartacus-docs: _pages/dev/ssr/server-side-rendering-contextual-logging.md

### LoggerService Behavior in an SSR Context

For server-side rendering, Spartacus overwrites the `LoggerService` with the `ExpressLoggerService` by default, which uses the `DefaultExpressServerLogger` for logging under the hood.

## Trace Context

> Spartacus offers support for the [W3C Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/) specification in addition to standardized SSR logging. With its built-in parser, you can extract trace context information from incoming requests and include it in the logs generated during server-side rendering. This enhancement provides new opportunities for seamlessly connecting logs generated in popular monitoring tools such as OpenSearch to distributed trace presentation tools like Dynatrace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spartacus offers support for the [W3C Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/) specification in addition to standardized SSR logging. With its built-in parser, you can extract trace context information from incoming requests and include it in the logs generated during server-side rendering. This enhancement provides new opportunities for seamlessly linking logs with requests' traces. For instance now it's possible to link logs displayed in the tools like OpenSearch to the distributed trace presentation tools like Dynatrace.
```

While the mentioned risks are not specific to Spartacus itself, if you have concerns regarding the security of the traceparent header, you may want to consider creating your own ExpressServerLogger implementation that does not include traceContext values in the logs.

### Attaching Trace Context to the logs

**Note:** The provided examples have been verified on SAP Commerce Cloud, which employs Dynatrace as its default observability platform. Nonetheless, since Trace Context adheres to W3C standards, these principles should be applicable to other comparable tools as well.

> The `traceContext` property will be automatically included in the logs if the incoming request contains the `traceparent`` header. This seamless integration simplifies the process of capturing trace context information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `traceContext` property will be automatically included in the logs if the incoming request contains the HTTP header `traceparent`. This seamless integration simplifies the process of capturing Trace Context information.
```

The following is an example of a traceparent header:
```text
traceparent: 00-0af7651916cd43dd8448eb211c80319c-b7ad6b7169203331-01
```

> The following is an example of a log that contains the `traceContext` property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of a log that contains the `traceContext` property with all information derived from the parsed `traceparent` HTTP header.
```

```json
{
  "message": "Rendering completed (/electronics-spa/en/USD/)",
  "context": {
    "timestamp": "2023-09-13T12:14:21.377Z",
    "request": {
      "url": "/electronics-spa/en/USD/",
      "uuid": "a076a5ba-7889-4c19-840e-395e89fde4b5",
      "timeReceived": "2023-09-13T12:14:13.450Z",
      "traceContext": {
        "version": "00",
        "traceId": "0af7651916cd43dd8448eb211c80319c",
        "parentId": "b7ad6b7169203331",
        "traceFlags": "01"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> If the traceContext is not appearing in the logs, there are several potential reasons for this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the property `traceContext` is not appearing in the logs, there are several potential reasons for this:
```

- **W3C Trace Context Not Enabled in Dynatrace:** Ensure that W3C Trace Context is enabled in your Dynatrace configuration. Without proper configuration, trace context information may not be collected.
- **Middleware Filtering:** Check if any middleware or components in your system are filtering out the `traceparent` header. If it's being removed or modified before reaching your application, the trace context information may not be captured.
- **Invalid `traceparent` Header:** Verify that the traceparent header value in the incoming request is valid and conforms to the W3C Trace Context specification. An invalid header may not be recognized and processed correctly.

> Addressing these potential issues is essential to ensure the correct inclusion of the traceContext in your logs. The built-in parser, designed to extract the trace context from the `traceparent header``, satisfies all security requirements specified in the W3C Trace Context standard. It meticulously examines each component of the header to verify its proper format. If the header is found to be invalid, the traceContext property will not be appended to the logs. Additionally, the parser will generate a log message that can be useful for debugging purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Addressing these potential issues is essential to ensure the correct inclusion of the `traceContext` property in your logs. The built-in parser, designed to extract the trace context from the `traceparent` HTTP header, satisfies all security requirements specified in the W3C Trace Context standard. It meticulously examines each component of the header to verify its proper format. If the header is found to be invalid, the `traceContext` property will not be appended to the logs. Additionally, the parser will generate a log message that can be useful for troubleshooting purposes.
```

```json
{
  "message": "Traceparent header has invalid length: 18. Expected 55 characters.",
  "context": {
    "timestamp": "2023-09-13T12:14:21.377Z",
    "request": {
      "url": "/electronics-spa/en/USD/"
    }
  }
}
```

Depending on the error ocurred during the parser, following error messages may be generated:
- `Traceparent header has invalid length: ${traceparent.length}. Expected 55 characters.` - the `traceparent` header has invalid length
- `Traceparent header has invalid format.` - the `traceparent` header has invalid format. To learn more, see [W3C Trace Context - Traceparent Header](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/#traceparent-header)

### Connecting Logs to Distributed Traces

**Note:** These steps have been verified on SAP Commerce Cloud, where OpenSearch Dashboards is the default monitoring tool. Please be aware that the steps described here may vary when using other monitoring tools.

All logs generated by Spartacus can be seen in OpenSearch Dashboards monitoring tool.
The following is an example of a log presented the monitoring tool:

![Log with Trace Context](assets/images/../../../../../assets/images/ssr/contextual_logging_trace_context.png)

> OpenSearch enables the formatting of fields as hyperlinks, and this section outlines the steps for configuring links that direct you to the Dynatrace distributed trace view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch allows for formatting the fields as hyperlinks, and this section outlines the steps for configuring clickable links that direct you from a certain log entry to a related distributed trace view in Dynatrace. This might be very convenient when troubleshooting.
```

To begin, navigate to the main menu and proceed to the "Stack Management" section. Within "Stack Management," choose "Index Patterns" from the available left navigation options.

![Stack Management Path](assets/images/../../../../../assets/images/ssr/contextual_logging_stack_management.png)

Next, select the pre-defined index pattern that corresponds to the log messages generated by your application. Locate the index where your application's logs are displayed.

![Available Indices](assets/images/../../../../../assets/images/ssr/contextual_logging_indices.png)

Once we selected an index pattern, the corresponding field list is shown (see screenshot below). We can filter the fields by name. We use this functionality to search for the field “traceId”. If the field is not found, try refreshing the index pattern with the little reload button on the top right in the screenshot. We can edit the field configuration by clicking on the pencil symbol in the table.

![Index with Logs From Spartacus App](assets/images/../../../../../assets/images/ssr/contextual_logging_index_patterns.png)

> After selecting an index pattern, the associated field list will be displayed (as shown in the screenshot below). You can filter the fields by name, and in this case, you should use this feature to search for the "traceId" field. If you can't find the "traceId" field, try refreshing the index pattern by clicking the small reload button located at the top right corner in the screenshot. To edit the field configuration, simply click on the pencil symbol within the table.

Reviewer: I have problem to understand why the 2nd paragraph repeats what was said in the 1st paragraph. Moreover the 2nd paragraph doesn't seem to describe its relevant image below.

**Note:** Using the trace context standard has the potential to introduce security risks. To mitigate the risk of buffer overflow and HTML injection attacks, vendors using the `traceparent` header must follow best practices for parsing headers that could be malicious. It's important to be aware that `traceparent` may expose sensitive information, which could potentially facilitate more significant attacks. Precautions should be taken accordingly. Enabling distributed tracing without adequate safeguards can leave systems vulnerable to denial-of-service attacks, so tracing vendors should implement protective measures, such as handling authenticated and unauthenticated requests differently, and implementing rate limiters. While these particular risks are not specific to Spartacus itself, if you have concerns regarding the security of the `traceparent` header, you may want to consider creating your own `ExpressServerLogger` implementation that does not include `traceContext` values in the logs.

> 

Reviewer 2: When it mentions vendors in this note, I am wondering who we are talking about... Vendors such as Dynatrace and OpenSearch? Or do we mean Spartacus customers who are setting up trace context for their storefront?

Author: I was referring to observability platforms such as Dynatrace (there are other solutions on the market as well) that attach the `traceparent` to requests for distributed tracing purposes.

Reviewer 2: That's what I thought, and then... I wasn't sure 😄 So thank you for confirming! 😊

}
```

Depending on the error ocurred during the parser, following error messages may be generated:
- `Traceparent header has invalid length: ${traceparent.length}. Expected 55 characters.` - the `traceparent` header has invalid length
- `Traceparent header has invalid format.` - the `traceparent` header has invalid format. To learn more, see [W3C Trace Context - Traceparent Header](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/#traceparent-header)

> 

Reviewer 2: I removed this part because the explanation that was provided about each error message was the same as the error message itself. And as for the link, it leads to a section of a page that shows what the fields are for the `transparent` header, but we already provide a link to that page at the start of the trace context section, so I didn't see the value in putting any of this information here....
